## paraphrase
To restate, put what someone else has expressed into different words.The noun a paraphrase is a restatement of a text or 
passage to give the sense of the original in fuller terms. The verb to paraphrase means to restate something, giving the 
meaning in another form. To quote and to paraphrase are sharply distinguished. To quote is to use or repeat the words of 
someone else, giving acknowledgment to the source. To paraphrase is to restate in different words what someone else has 
said or written.

## ostensible
Apparent, appearing or seeming to be true, professed or declared as true without being demonstrated or proved. More 
difficult synonyms of ostensible include plausible, p-l-a-u-s-i-b-l-e, and specious, s-p-e-c-i-o-u-s. Specious, however, 
has the negative suggestion of using deception to make something false appear true. A specious argument is one that 
looks good on the surface but is flawed underneath. Ostensible is often used in opposition to real or actual. An 
ostensible motive is not necessarily a real motive; an ostensible advantage is not necessarily an actual advantage. 
Ostensible means apparent, stated as true but not necessarily proved.

## digress
 to wander, stray from the point, ramble, deviate, go off in another direction. Digress comes from the Latin digressus, 
 which comes in turn from the prefix dis-, apart, and gradi, to go, walk, step. Digress means literally to go apart, 
 walk away. From the same Latin source come ingress, the place you walk in, the entrance; and egress, the place you walk 
 out, the exit. Digress once was used of a physical wandering or turning aside, but that sense is now archaic, which 
 means old-fashioned. Today we do not say, "She turned right and digressed down Main Street." Instead, digress is used 
 of speaking or writing that departs from the main point or subject at hand and wanders off in another direction: "In a 
 business report or an oral presentation, it's important to stick to the facts and not digress"; "If she hadn't 
 digressed so much, her lecture would have been more interesting." Digress may also be pronounced [daɪ'ɡrɛs]. The 
 corresponding noun is digression, d-i-g-r-e-s-s-i-o-n, :"The old man's story was full of humorous digressions."
 
## uncanny
Eerie, strange, weird, mysterious: "an uncanny experience." Uncanny may refer to something that is strange in an 
unnatural or unearthly way, something whose strangeness is unsettling or even frightening. Uncanny may also be used to 
mean beyond what is normal or expected, strange in a remarkable or marvelous way, as "an uncanny resemblance", or 
"uncanny ability".

## candor
Frankness, openness, sincere expression. Synonyms include straightforwardness, outspokenness, forthrightness, and 
ingenuousness. Candor is the noun, the adjective is candid, frank, open, sincere. The candid person expresses his or her 
thoughts frankly and openly, with no hesitation. The forthright person speaks directly to the point, plainly and 
sometimes bluntly, in a no-nonsense manner. The ingenuous person speaks honestly and sincerely, with no hint of 
evasiveness or deception.

## morose
Gloomy, moody, glum, grumpy, ill-tempered, depressed. "After weeks of futile job-hunting, he became morose." More 
difficult synonyms of morose include dolorous, which means mournful, full of sadness; lugubrious, which means extremely
gloomy or dismal; and saturnine, which means having a bitter disposition or sour outlook on life. Antonyms - words 
opposite in meaning - include optimistic, jovial, and sanguine, which means having a cheerful, confident outlook on 
life. Sullen and morose are close in meaning. When you refuse to speak or associate with people because you're in a bad 
mood, you are being sullen. When you are depressed and silent because you are feeling bitter or resentful, you are 
morose. Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, tenth edition, says that morose suggests "bitterness or misanthropy". 
Misanthropy is a hatred of humankind, a spiteful or pessimistic attitude about the human race. Moroseness is ill-
tempered, bitter gloominess. 

## adept
Skilled. Synonyms include handy, clever, able, deft, expert, dexterous, proficient and adroit. Adapt comes from the 
Latin adeptus, an alchemist who has learned how to do the impossible - change base metals into gold. The noun an adept
means a highly skilled person, an expert. The adjective adept means skilled, dexterous, proficient: "He was adept at 
managing his investments, and they always turned a handsome profit."

## saturated
Soaked, thoroughly wet, full of moisture. Synonyms include drenched, steeped, permeated, impregnated, imbued, and 
sodden. Sodden may mean heavy with moisture, soggy, or dull, stupefied, expressionless, as from drinking too much 
liquor. To saturate means to soak or wet thoroughly, either literally, as in "My french fries are saturated with oil," 
or figuratively:"The company saturated the media with ads for its new project." Saturation is the corresponding noun. 