---
title: 'Boruta Feature Selection'
date: 2024-10-16
permalink: /posts/2024/10/boruta-feature-selection/
tags:
  - feature selection
  - machine learning
---

Purpose
------
Boruta is designed to determine which variables (features) are significant in predicting the outcome with the given dataset. It is particularly useful when dealing with high-dimensional data.

How It Works
------

- Random Forest Base: It starts by fitting a Random Forest model to the original data.
- Shadow Features: For each feature in the dataset, it creates a duplicate (shadow) feature by shuffling its values. This helps establish a baseline for what "random" looks like.
- Importance Scores: The algorithm calculates importance scores for both original and shadow features based on how well they help in predicting the outcome.
- Comparison: The original features are then compared to the best-performing shadow feature. If an original feature has a higher importance score, it is considered significant.
Decision Process: Boruta iteratively tests features, deciding whether to confirm them as important, reject them, or keep them under consideration based on their importance scores across multiple iterations.

- Final Output: The result is a clear classification of each feature into three categories: confirmed (important), rejected (not important), or tentative (needs further assessment).

Advantages
------

Identifies all relevant features, not just the best ones, which can be crucial in some analyses.
Reduces the likelihood of overfitting by providing a more comprehensive feature selection process.
Implementation: Boruta is available in various programming environments, with a popular implementation in R and Python.

Reference:
------

[1] [预测变量的选择：森林之神[Boruta]](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzIzNjk2NDg4NA==&mid=2247486560&idx=1&sn=91f12c85c824f7f5c05bc56f97720fd3&chksm=e8ce911bdfb9180d43f22057310c263e6cf2839e69b99171779c2aabd3cb734b23cdcabbeef7&token=1653053598&lang=zh_CN#rd)
[2] Miron B. Kursa, Witold R. Rudnicki. Feature selection with the Boruta package.J Stat Softw,2010, 36(11): 1-13.